[Music]
have you ever helped set a table and
found yourself wondering where to place
the forks or sat down to eat at a
restaurant and wondered which utensils
to use well here are some simple
traditional etiquette tips on how to set
a table what would happen if you set a
table like this it doesn't look good and
you have to clean up the mess before you
can even start let's try another way to
start use a placemat or table cloth but
not both
so the dishes aren't directly on the
table this is more about looks than
etiquette but it's rare to see nothing
under a plate unless you're eating at a
picnic table set out any flowers
candlesticks or other decorations you
like candles are usually only lit at
night start with utensils for the main
course putting your dinner fork on the
left and your dinner knife on the right
hand side since these are the hands we
use them with here's a helpful tip you
always eat outside in so to set for
salad we'll put the salad fork to the
outside of the dinner fork and the salad
knife to the outside of the dinner knife
we'll have salad first then our main
course notice too that the knife blades
are both pointed toward the plate this
is an old tradition from a time when
dinner knives were quite sharp and it
was a sign of politeness and
non-aggression to keep them pointed away
from other diners we might have some
soup
and since soup usually comes first the
soup spoon goes outside the knives since
we use our right hand to hold it here's
another tip only set the table with what
you'll need if you're not eating soup
don't set a soup spoon now for dessert
we'll have ice cream so we'll place the
dessert up top since we don't need it
for a little while
notice that the bowl of the spoon is
pointing to the left
this way when it's time to eat you just
slide it down and it's in the right spot
if you are having cake you'd set a fork
and flip it 180 degrees so it would be
right side up on the Left instead next
we'll anchor our setting with the plate
you can also serve from the kitchen then
bring them to the table the bread plate
goes up into the left of the setting and
the butter knife goes on the plate at an
angle again with the blade pointing in
there's only one spot
and that's for the drinks set the wine
glass to the upper right and then place
the water glass to the left of it at an
angle if you're like me and can never
remember which goes where think water
wine WAW ai ai they go left to right in
alphabetical order another tip to
remember left and right with the bread
and the drinks think BMW like the car be
your bread plate is on the left and your
meal is in the middle and W your water
is on the right lastly the napkin
traditionally goes to the left of the
forks though it's okay to put it
underneath them to for a fancier meal
like this one that takes up a lot of
space we'll put it in the middle now
we're ready to eat hopefully these tips
will be helpful the next time you're
asked to help set the table or sit down
at a fancy meal enjoy
you